JUDY WOODRUFF: As we
reported earlier, governments
and industries the
world over are trying to
deal with effects of the latest
in a series of cyber-attacks.
The so-called ransomware
assault is the second such
strike in the last six weeks.
Hari Sreenivasan in
New York has more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This
attack originated yesterday
in Ukraine, and rapidly
spread through Europe
and beyond.
The virus is called
Petya, and it takes
over infected computers,
effectively locking out
users.
A payment is required to return
control of the machine and data.
In early May, a similar
virus called WannaCry spread
to over 150 countries.
This new attack shows
signs of greater technical
sophistication, but
both apparently used,
in part, a tool developed by the
U.S. National Security Agency,
a tool that was leaked into
the open last year.
With me now for more on
this is Rodney Joffe.
He is the senior vice president
and national security executive
for Neustar, a cyber-security
firm.
Rodney, it seems that we have
not learned that much from
what happened two months ago,
but it seems that the attackers
have learned a little bit more.
RODNEY JOFFE, Senior
Vice President and Senior
Technologist, Neustar,
Inc.: There's no question
that this is more sophisticated.
When we look at the code, when
we look at the mechanism that
was used, this one is much
more sophisticated.
It actually uses three different
vectors we have seen so far.
The vector you're talking about
that was used in WannaCry is
the third option that is used
by this one.
It uses two others, but
the damage is much more
significant in this case.
This is not looking like so much
like ransomware anymore, but
it's starting to look like it's
a deliberate attempt to cause
havoc by destroying machines.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is
this something that a
hacker collective would
do, or is this something
that a state government
would be interested in
doing, destabilizing
Ukraine from all of
these companies that do business
with it or pay taxes to it?
RODNEY JOFFE: You know,
it's real tough these
days to tell where the
dividing line is between
the criminals and nation
states, and they really do work
hand in hand, especially in
Eastern Europe.
But if you look this, the
criminals are obviously out
there for financial gain.
This was set up in such a way
that there's very little chance
of much in terms of financial
gain.
I think, as of last evening,
by the way, there was $10,500
that had actually paid into this
wallet.
And I have got to tell
you that the effort that
went into writing the
code and distributing
it clearly cost a lot
more than $10,500.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What
is the measurable impact
on Ukraine going forward?
RODNEY JOFFE: I think that the
biggest problem that they're
going to be facing is the fact
that the ability to pay taxes to
the state is seriously affected.
We have seen images that
were tweeted of things
like supermarkets where
the checkout systems
had been compromised -- and
we're showing the screen.
We also see the very large --
obviously, the multinational
shipping line that has now been
affected.
So, it looks like a deliberate
attempt to cause some kind of
significant financial impact,
not just on the citizens of
Ukraine, but on Ukraine itself.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You
know, when you said
you noticed differences
in the design between
the WannaCry and this, do we
have any indication that paying
these people off actually gets
you your data back, or was it
not even designed to do that?
RODNEY JOFFE: Theoretically,
it was designed to do that,
but it's clear so far that the
mechanism that was put in place
to actually collect ransom is
nowhere near the sophistication
of the malware itself.
And you don't think that someone
would have made that kind
of mistake, built something
that was very, very effective
to compromise, and no
real ability to collect.
We haven't seen or heard
of anyone so far who has
been able to decrypt it.
And what we also know is that,
within a very short time after
the malware was discovered,
the single e-mail address
that was needed to communicate
with was actually shut down
by the provider.
So that's one reason that I
believe that no one is going
to be able to easily get their
data back.
The second thing is that there
are reports that are surfacing
now, as folks have looked
at the code, that there is
at least one bug in the code
that actually makes it so that
decryption is not possible.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Are the rest
of us basically collateral
damage when it comes to what's
happening, say, between
Ukraine and Russia?
This is falling on the
day now where this is
Constitution Day for Ukraine.
They're celebrating their
independence from Russia,
what, 21 years ago.
RODNEY JOFFE: We clearly
are collateral damage.
This was obviously
targeted at Ukraine.
But it is affecting others.
However, one of the things that
we have learned in the past is
that, in many ways, the people
behind a lot of the
malware don't care about
the collateral damage.
They have a single target or
a single objective, and they
don't really seem to care.
We have seen that for years.
This is no different.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Rodney Joffe
joining us from Washington,
D.C., tonight, thanks so
much.
RODNEY JOFFE: Thanks
for having me.